I don't see why we have to do this
every year.
I thought that last year,
the teachers agreed
that they wouldn't do this anymore.
Captain Picard Day is one of
the children's favorite school activities.
They look forward to it all year.
Why does it have to be me?
Because you're the captain
and they look up to you.
You're a role model for them.
Well, they seem to have a somewhat
exaggerated impression of me.
[IMlTATING PICARD  I think
the resemblance is rather striking.
Wouldn't you agree, Number One?
Isn't there something else
you have to do?
I'll be on the Bridge.
Will.
The finalists will be here
in half an hour.
You have to pick a first, second
and third place,
and four honorable mentions.
WORF [OVER COM :
Worf to captain.
Incoming transmission
from Admiral Blackwell.
It is coded priority one.
Put it through, Mr. Worf.
Excuse me, counselor.
Yes, admiral?
Captain, what is your status?
We are conducting
energy-output studies
of the Mekoria quasar.
All systems normal.
The ship is fully operational.
Good. l'm postponing
the quasar study for the moment.
The Enterprise is to rendezvous
with the starship Crazy Horse
in Sector 1 607, immediately.
You're authorized to exceed
warp-speed limitations
for the duration of this assignment.
I understand.
What is our assignment?
I'd prefer not to discuss it
over subspace channels.
The Crazy Horse will be carrying
someone from Starfleet lntelligence.
He'll brief you when he arrives.
Very well.
"Captain Picard Day"?
Oh, uh...
Yes, it's, uh, for the children.
I'm, uh... Ha, ha.
I'm a role model. Ha, ha.
I'm sure you are. Starfleet out.
[IN NORMAL VOICE
So who won the contest?
Oh, Paul Menegay, a 7-year-old.
He did a most interesting
clay sculpture of my head.
Was that the orange one?
With the lumpy skin?
- Yes.
- Mm-hm.
Oh, you'll be interested to know
that I've arranged for
a Commander Riker Day next month.
I'm even considering
making an entry myself.
Great.
- Energize.
CHIEF: Aye, sir.
Will.
I'll bet you never thought
you'd see me again.
It's good to see you, sir.
Yeah, sure it is.
You look like you're about to faint.
No, it's just that
it's been a long time.
Captain Jean-Luc Picard,
Admiral Eric Pressman.
Pressman, yes, of course.
You were Will's
first commanding officer,
on the Pegasus.
That's right.
As a matter of fact,
the Pegasus is the reason I'm here.
Sir?
She's still out there, Will,
and the Romulans have found her.
PICARD:
Space, the final frontier.
These are the voyages
ofthe starship Enterprise.
Its continuing mission:
to explore strange new worlds,
to seek out new life
and new civilizations,
to boldly go where no one
has gone before.
As you know, the starship Pegasus
was lost in this sector
some 12 years ago,
along with most of her crew.
I was her captain,
and Commander Riker here
was my helmsman.
I remember hearing about it.
The ship was destroyed
by a warp-core breach, as I recall.
Captain and I,
along with seven others,
managed to make it to the escape pod
before the breach became critical.
From space,
we observed what appeared to be
a matter-antimatter explosion
which vaporized the ship.
No wreckage was found, so Starfleet
officially declared the ship destroyed.
However, all that
changed three days ago.
Starfleet lntelligence has an operative
in Romulan High Command.
He sent us a message
that a Romulan warbird
had located a piece of debris
in the Devolin system
which was positively identified
as being from the Pegasus.
The warbird was then ordered
to locate the rest of the ship,
if possible, and retrieve it.
What would the Romulans want
with pieces of a 12-year-old starship?
The Pegasus was a prototype.
Experimental engine,
new weapons systems.
In fact, some of our designs
were used
in constructing the Enterprise.
There are things onboard
the Romulans
would love to get their hands on.
What are our orders?
PRESSMAN: To find the ship
before the Romulans do.
Salvage it if possible,
destroy it if necessary.
You command the Enterprise.
I remain in command
of the overall mission.
We need the metallurgical and
chronographic specs on the Pegasus
in order to set up
the proper search parameters.
I'll make the appropriate information
available to you.
Very well.
Lay in a course
for the Devolin system.
Aye, sir.
Captain, we are approaching
the Devolin system.
- Any sign of the Romulans?
DATA: No, sir.
Well, they're out there.
They're just waiting to see
what you're going to do.
Mr. La Forge?
There's an awful lot of ionizing
radiation in this system, captain.
That and the amount of sheer rock
is gonna slow down our search.
- How slow?
- I'd say at least--
Sir, Romulan warbird
decloaking directly ahead.
They are powering weapons.
Shields up. Red alert.
Prepare phasers.
[COMPUTER BEEPING
Sir, they are hailing us.
On-screen.
l am Commander Sirol
of the Romulan vessel Terix.
To whom do l have the honor
of speaking?
I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard
of the Federation starship Enterprise.
Captain Picard.
I've heard so much about you.
A pleasure
to make your acquaintance.
I hope our sudden appearance
didn't startle you.
Heh. Not at all,
but your unannounced appearance
might have unfortunate consequences.
It would be an awful shame
if your ship were damaged
due to some misunderstanding.
I am touched
by your concern for my ship,
but l doubt
we were ever in any danger.
May l ask
what you are doing in this system?
I might ask you the same question.
We are conducting a survey
of gaseous anomalies.
How interesting. So are we.
Perhaps we could combine our efforts
and share our findings.
I doubt our objectives
are compatible.
Perhaps you're right.
This has been
a most pleasant conversation,
but we must return to our research.
Then I won't keep you.
[COMPUTER BEEPING
Sir, they are moving off,
resuming their tachyon scans
of the system.
Stand down red alert,
but keep tracking their movement,
lieutenant.
Aye, sir.
Commander, how long will it take us
to search this system?
At least seven days, sir.
And the Romulans
have a two-day head start.
Then let's get to it. Mr. Data.
Initiating sensor sweep of Grid 01 .
So how long
have you had that beard?
About four years.
I got tired of hearing
how young I looked.
What was it that, uh,
Lieutenant Boylen used to call you?
Ensign Babyface.
Ha, ha. Yeah.
You never did have much
of a sense of humor.
I like to think that l've lightened up
a little in my old age.
Really?
I've been known to tell a joke or two.
Well, it's about time.
You were always so serious
on the Pegasus.
Yeah.
We went through
some serious times.
Do you think we're gonna find
the Pegasus again?
I wouldn't have come
all the way out here if I didn't.
What about the experiment? Do you
think we're going to find that too?
Maybe.
You know, I think a lot
about what happened.
Especially on that last day.
So do I.
It's not the kind of thing
you just forget.
Do you ever wonder
if we did the right thing?
Never.
What happened was a tragedy, yes,
but it wasn't your fault
and it wasn't mine.
What we were doing
was for the good of the Federation,
and we can't blame ourselves
if the others couldn't see that.
I know, but maybe we went about it
the wrong way.
Well, this time, we may have a chance
to do it the right way.
If this mission is successful,
if we find the Pegasus
and the experiment,
we can finish
what we started 1 2 years ago.
You wanna try again?
It's not just me, Will.
The chief of Starfleet security
has personally given me
her assurance of complete support.
Admiral Raner?
How many other people
know about this?
Not many, and it's up to us
to make sure it stays that way.
Raner has given me
written orders for you.
You'll find them coded
in the Enterprise computer.
You've been instructed not to reveal
the true nature of our mission
to anyone else.
Not even Captain Picard.
Will, don't worry.
It won't be like it was 12 years ago.
And this time,
no one's gonna stop us.
As a matter of fact,
I never met Will
until he reported onboard
at Farpoint Station.
You chose your first officer
without ever meeting him?
I was looking through the records
of about 50 candidates,
and Will's was very much
like all the others:
filled with lots of dry statistics
and glowing letters of recommendation
that tell you nothing.
I was about to put it aside,
look at another file,
and then something caught my eye.
There was an incident on Altair IIl
when Will was first officer of the Hood.
He refused to let Captain DeSoto
beam down during a crisis.
He disobeyed a direct order
and he risked a general court-martial
because he thought he was right.
And when I read that, I knew
that I had found my Number One.
You wanted someone
with a history of disobedience?
I wanted someone
who would stand up to me.
Someone who was more concerned
with the safety of the ship
and accomplishing the mission
than with how it might look
on his record.
To me, that's one of the marks
of a good officer.
Frankly, I've always felt
it was more important for an officer
to trust his captain's judgment.
In a crisis,
there's no time for explanations.
Orders have to be obeyed
without question or lives may be lost.
I'm aware of that, admiral.
Of course you are.
I guess this mission has brought up
some old ghosts for me.
You know what it's like
to lose a ship?
You're always wondering if there's
something else you should have done,
something you missed.
Admiral, the record
regarding the loss of the Pegasus
is a bit vague from the moment
just before you abandoned ship.
Is there anything that you can add
to the official account?
I'm afraid not...
...but l can tell you this.
Twelve years ago, I needed an officer
that I could count on in a crisis.
Someone who would support and obey
my decisions without question.
Someone who was willing
to trust my judgment.
And that someone was Will Riker.
Without his loyalty,
none of us would have survived.
[RIKER GROANS]
CRUSHER: What's wrong?
- I think I busted a rib.
Excuse me.
What were you doing?
I was doing bat'leth moves
with Mr. Worf.
I jabbed
when I should have blocked.
- He caught me right in the side.
- Oh.
It's a good thing we were using sticks
instead of the real blades.
It's broken, all right.
Give him 1 0 cc's
of terakine for the pain.
I can't believe how stupid I was.
You both must have gotten
a little carried away, that's all.
No, it was my fault.
I got distracted at a crucial moment.
It can happen to anyone.
I knew what I was supposed to do
and I didn't do it.
If those had been real bat'leths,
I might be dead right now.
There, all better.
Will, it's all right.
You made a mistake, no harm done.
- You'll be better next time.
- Yeah, maybe.
Scan of Grid 1 57 is complete.
I am moving to Grid 1 58.
The Romulan warship
is still searching Grid 270.
They're sure spending a lot of time
over there.
- I wonder if they--
- Commander.
I think we might have
just struck pay dirt.
There's a subspace
resonance signature
coming from that asteroid.
From the frequency variances,
it looks like the pattern
of a Federation warp core.
Captain Picard to the Bridge.
Take us to within ten kilometers
of asteroid Gamma 601 .
Geordi's found something.
There's a subspace
resonance signature
coming from that asteroid.
Could be the warp core
of the Pegasus.
I think he's right. I recognize
some of the variance patterns.
Put the asteroid
on the main viewscreen.
DATA:
I have confirmed Geordi's readings.
The resonance signature's
originating
from somewhere
beneath the asteroid's surface.
Beneath the surface?
How is that possible?
The asteroid
contains several deep chasms
large enough for a starship to enter.
It is possible the Pegasus drifted
into the asteroid's gravitational field
and was pulled down
into one of the fissures.
Sir, the Romulan warbird
has altered course once again.
They are heading
toward our position.
They probably wanna see
what we're so interested in over here.
Mr. Data, how long will it take
to determine the location
of the Pegasus?
- At least another six hours, sir.
- That's too long.
If the Romulans start
searching the asteroid,
they could find the ship
before we do.
I recommend
we destroy the asteroid.
It would take
most of our photon torpedoes,
but it would preclude any possibility
of the Pegasus
falling into Romulan hands.
Our top priority
is to salvage the ship, commander.
I'll consider destroying it
only as a last resort.
Yes, sir.
Captain, could you give me
a third alternative?
Mr. Data, would it be possible
to saturate the asteroid
with verteron particles
that would mask
the resonance signature
and prevent the Romulans
from detecting it?
In order
for the deception to succeed,
it would have to appear
to be a natural phenomenon.
Verteron particles
are artificial in nature.
Wait a minute.
We can blanket the asteroid
with high levels of ionizing radiation.
There's so much of it
in the system already,
Romulans
won't know the difference.
- Mr. Data?
- Theoretically, sir, it should work.
If we do this, we have to do it fast.
The Romulans will be within
sensor range in less than a minute.
Make it so, Mr. Data.
Aye, sir.
Initiating ionization field pulse.
When he's finished,
we'll have to move away
and make it look
as if we scanned the asteroid
but haven't found anything.
Lay in a course for the next
search grid. Stand by to engage.
If it works, the Romulans
won't find anything
and we can return later.
If it doesn't--
If it doesn't work, we'll have
handed them the Pegasus.
Ionization pulse complete.
Helm, one-quarter impulse.
Engage.
The Romulans are initiating
a tachyon scan of the asteroid.
They have switched
to their lateral sensor array.
Beginning another scan.
They're certainly being thorough.
DATA: The warbird
has completed its sensor sweep.
If they found
the resonance signature,
they should be sending
away teams any second.
DATA:
They are moving out.
Mr. Data, we must convince
the Romulans
that we're still looking
for the Pegasus.
I want you to continue
scanning this system.
DATA:
Aye, sir.
I want to be back at this asteroid
at 0800 hours tomorrow.
- Plan your search pattern accordingly.
- Aye, sir.
Admiral, would you care to join me
for some late dinner?
Please excuse me, captain,
but I think I'd better turn in early.
You have the Bridge, Number One.
Oh, and will you bring
the scan analysis to my quarters
when you're off watch?
Aye, sir.
Initiate search of Grid 163.
Beginning sensor sweeps.
Commander, I wanna see you
in the captain's Ready Room.
- Mr. Data, you have the Bridge.
- Aye, sir.
What the hell
is the matter with you?
Destroy the Pegasus
before we've even taken a look at it?
It was more important
that the Romulans--
Well, you were wrong!
We have a chance here to change
the balance of power in this quadrant,
but we can't very well do that
if we destroy the Pegasus,
now, can we?
No, sir.
It hasn't been easy for you, I'm sure,
keeping your captain
and friends in the dark like this.
I haven't enjoyed it,
if that's what you mean.
I hope you understand
that it's necessary.
I understand
that you think it's necessary.
You have changed.
Changed?
Something the captain
and I were talking about.
To be honest, I'm glad to see
this kind of change in you, Will.
State your opinion and stand by it.
It's a far cry from the young man
who used to sit at my helm
and worry
about pressing the wrong button.
A lot of things can change
in 12 years, admiral.
Yes, they can,
but it's important that a man
changes the right things in his life,
not his sense of duty.
Not his sense of loyalty.
I'd like to think that
I haven't changed those things, sir.
I would like to think that too.
Because those things say more
about a man
than the rank on his collar
or the uniform he wears.
They define him.
Twelve years ago, a lot of older
and more seasoned officers
turned away from their duty,
but you stood up for what was right.
I'm sorry, Will.
I know the kind of man you are.
I know that I can count on you again.
[SIGHS
[DOORBELL CHlMES
Come.
The scan analysis you asked for.
Thank you.
[SIGHS
- Is there something else, sir?
- Yes, there is.
"Judge Advocate General's report,
stardate 36764.
Subject, inquiry into mutiny
aboard USS Pegasus.
Based on testimonies
from Captain Pressman
and other surviving officers,
the judge advocate believes
there is sufficient evidence to conclude
that certain members of the crew
did mutiny against the captain
just prior to the destruction
of the Pegasus."
Mutiny? On a Federation starship?
That's shocking. It's unthinkable.
And yet you've never mentioned it.
No, sir.
You know,
it wasn't easy to get this report.
I had to pull in quite a few favors
at Starfleet just to get a look at it.
It seems that it was classified
by Starfleet lntelligence.
So not only was the Pegasus
carrying sensitive equipment
which must not be allowed
to fall into Romulan hands,
not only was there
a mysterious explosion
which seemed to destroy the ship
but didn't,
but it seems
that there was a mutiny onboard.
Now, l've read the official report
of the inquiry on that mutiny,
but I want to know
your version of what happened.
I was on the Bridge.
The ship was at yellow alert.
We were running some tests
on the engines.
Something went wrong.
There was an explosion
in Engineering.
Heavy casualties.
In the midst of this crisis,
the first officer, chief of engineering
and most of the Bridge crew
mutinied against Captain Pressman.
Why?
They thought
he was jeopardizing the ship.
And you?
I was seven months
out of the Academy,
my head still ringing
with words like "duty" and "honor."
When they turned on him,
I thought they were a bunch
of self-serving disloyal officers,
so I grabbed a phaser
and I defended my captain.
Two or three others joined us,
but it was clear by then
that the mutineers
had most of the crew behind them.
We felt a need to get off the ship.
There was a running firefight
all the way to the escape pod.
About five minutes
after we left the ship,
there was an explosion.
"The judge advocate also believes
that the surviving officers
are deliberately withholding
vital information from this inquiry.
Further investigation
is recommended."
Will, there was
no further investigation.
This report was classified
and then it was quietly buried.
Why?
- May l suggest you take this up with--?
- I'm taking this up with you, Will!
The judge advocate thought
that you were participating
in a conspiracy to cover up the truth.
Now, what the hell
is going on here, Will?
Why did that mutiny happen?
Why is Pressman so determined
to find your ship 12 years later?
I've said all l can.
I am under direct orders
from Admiral Pressman
not to discuss this, sir.
Very well.
He's an admiral, I'm a captain.
I cannot force you
to disobey his orders.
Therefore, l will have to remain
in the dark on this mission,
and I will just have to trust
that you will not let Pressman
put this ship at unnecessary risk.
And if I find that that trust
has been misplaced,
then I will have to reevaluate
the command structure of this ship.
Dismissed.
Captain, Starfleet places
the highest priority
on the success of this mission.
Your request for a delay is denied.
Margaret,
something's very wrong here.
Do you know what's going on?
l know that the chief
of Starfleet lntelligence herself
is watching this one, Jean-Luc.
So you'd be well advised
to follow Pressman's orders
and leave it at that.
Starfleet out.
[SIGHS
WORF [OVER COM :
Worf to Captain Picard.
We are approaching
asteroid Gamma 601 , sir.
On my way.
Mr. Worf, where are the Romulans?
They are out of sensor range
on the far side of the system.
Take us to within 1 5 kilometers
of the asteroid and hold that position.
Aye, sir.
Mr. Data, report.
For the past several hours,
I have been scanning the area
where we detected the resonance
signature of the Pegasus.
From the strength and polarity
of the signature,
it would appear that most
of the warp core is still intact.
If we're lucky, the entire Engineering
section could be down there.
But how do we get to it?
I wouldn't wanna try to transport
through that much solid rock.
Agreed.
What about a shuttle?
We could send it down
through one of those fissures.
I would recommend against it, sir.
There may be gravimetric
or magnetic fluctuations
inside the asteroid
which would overpower the engines
of a shuttlecraft.
Sounds like the best solution
is to take the Enterprise in.
- Into the asteroid?
- That's right.
Put this fissure on the main viewer.
This chasm is large enough for us
to maneuver in.
Besides, if we hope
to salvage the Pegasus,
we're gonna need a starship to do it.
Mr. Data?
It is theoretically possible, sir,
but I am unaware
of any prior situations
where a starship was taken so deeply
inside a planetary body.
There may be
unforeseen difficulties.
- Admiral, I don't think we can risk--
- I've made my decision.
Prepare to take
the Enterprise in, captain.
That's an order.
Mr. Data, will you please note
in the ship's log
that this action is being taken
over my explicit objection?
It is so noted, sir.
- Yellow alert.
- Shields up.
Inertial dampers at maximum.
Ensign Gates,
plot a course into the chasm,
maneuvering thrusters only.
Course plotted, sir.
Take us in.
We are now two kilometers
beneath the surface.
Captain, we are encountering shifts
in the magnetic-field density.
Admiral, if this passage narrows
to less than 500 meters,
I will abort the mission.
You can charge me
with insubordination if you wish,
but I'm not going to risk the Enterprise
for a salvage operation.
Captain, l am reading a large
resonance signature directly ahead.
Pegasus.
What the hell happened?
DATA:
Sensors show the ship is still intact.
However, 65 percent of it
is contained within the asteroid.
It looks as if half the ship
materialized inside solid rock.
Yes, sir.
I do not understand
how this could have happened.
Let's keep the speculation
to a minimum.
We have to begin
the salvage operation.
The equipment we need
was in Main Engineering.
Can you scan that section
on the Pegasus?
The starboard bulkhead
of Main Engineering
is contained within the rock face.
Most of its compartment
is still intact.
There is a hull breach
in that section.
If we begin a power transfer,
can we restore life-support systems
to that compartment?
I believe so, sir.
The breach can be temporarily sealed
by extending our shields.
See to it.
Once you've restored life support,
Commander Riker and I
will beam directly into Engineering.
Admiral, l would like to send down
a complete away team.
There's some
very sensitive equipment over there.
I don't want anyone else near it.
Yes, sir.
This room was open to space
for 12 years.
Vacuum preserved everything.
I wonder how many of the crew
are buried back there.
PRESSMAN: We're not here
for a memorial service.
It's still intact.
What's the matter, Will?
Don't you understand? We found it.
I know.
I kept hoping it wouldn't be here.
That it had been destroyed
or that it was buried
in that rock back there.
What the hell
is that supposed to mean?
It means that I can't put this off
any longer.
Right up to this moment,
I had the luxury of time,
but now I've gotta make a choice.
And, admiral,
I'm afraid my choice is this:
I can't let you start
these experiments again.
It was wrong 12 years ago
and it is wrong today.
You had better reconsider
that position, commander.
We have a mission to accomplish,
and you're gonna carry it out.
That's all you care about.
Starting these damn
experiments again.
Look around.
This room is filled with dead bodies.
These people died
because of this thing.
Oh. Keep your self-righteous
comments to yourself.
I knew most of these people
a lot longer than you did.
Yes, it was tragic,
but it was their fault.
You don't know that.
Neither of us knows
what happened after we left.
Well, it's not hard to guess.
They tried to shut down
an experiment they didn't understand.
Something went wrong
and it killed them.
No, we killed them.
Now, that doesn't sound like
the same man who grabbed a phaser
and defended his captain
1 2 years ago.
I've had 1 2 years to think about it,
and if I had it to do over again,
I would have grabbed the phaser
and pointed it at you instead of them.
So on reflection,
you'd rather be a traitor than a hero.
I wasn't a hero
and neither were you.
What you did was wrong,
and I was wrong to support you,
but I was too young
and too stupid to realize it.
You were the captain,
I was the ensign.
I was just following orders.
And if you hadn't,
you'd be dead right now
along with all the rest of them.
Dead because you listened
to a bunch of mutinous cowards
who were too blinded by fear
to see what l was trying to do.
They were brave enough
to risk their lives to stop you
from violating a treaty
the Federation signed in good faith.
That treaty has bound our hands
and given the Romulans
a tactical advantage
for the last 60 years.
I was simply trying to level
the playing field.
And now you wanna try it again?
How many people will die this time?
Fifty? A hundred? A thousand?
All right,
you don't want to help me, fine,
but you are still under my orders
not to talk about what you know,
and I expect you
to follow those orders to the letter.
I made you, mister,
and I can break you just as easily.
Do you understand me,
commander?
PICARD [OVER COM]:
Picard to away team.
Prepare to return
to the ship immediately.
Stand by, Enterprise.
Pressman to Enterprise.
Two people and one piece
of equipment to beam up.
[ALARM WAILlNG
Report.
The Romulans have destroyed
the entrance to the chasm
with their disruptors.
They've sealed us in.
Sir, there is an incoming message.
It is from the warbird.
- On-screen.
- Aye, sir.
Captain, you seem to be
in a very unfortunate circumstance.
How can we help?
Are you responsible for this?
I'm not sure.
We were conducting
some geological experiments
on the surface of the asteroid.
It is entirely possible
that we accidentally sealed you in.
If only we had known
you were beneath the surface,
if you had shared your plans with us,
this might have been avoided.
What do you want, Sirol?
I don't want anything, captain,
but l will offer to help you.
How?
By transporting
your crew aboard my ship.
We'll take you back to Romulus,
where after a short stay
as our guests,
you will be returned
to the Federation.
Thank you for your generous offer.
I will take it under advisement.
As you wish.
We will be continuing our research
in this system for a while longer.
I await your decision.
We can't do it.
If we abandon Enterprise, they'll come
and get their hands on both ships.
Agreed. Options?
Captain, l believe we could use
the phasers to cut our way out.
The asteroid's internal structure
is highly unstable.
Any attempt to cut through the rock
could cause the entire chasm
to collapse.
Captain, l have a suggestion.
There's a piece of equipment
in Admiral Pressman's quarters
under guard
that might get us out of here.
It's a prototype
for a Federation cloaking device.
You just ended your career, Will.
That's what it's about.
A cloaking device.
In the Treaty of Algeron,
the Federation specifically agreed
not to develop cloaking technology.
And that treaty
is the biggest mistake we ever made.
It's kept us from exploiting
a vital area of defense.
That treaty has kept us in peace
for 60 years.
And as a Starfleet officer,
you're supposed to uphold it.
Now, that's enough.
I'm taking command of this vessel.
Mr. Worf, escort the captain
to his quarters.
I don't think anyone's going to come
to your defense this time.
How do we use the cloak
to escape from the asteroid?
It's more than just a cloak.
It changes the structure of matter.
In theory, a ship using this device
could pass through normal matter.
I see why you were so eager
to find it.
Then can't you see
the potential here?
The phasing cloak could be
the greatest breakthrough
in weapons research
in the last 50 years.
Except that it's illegal.
It's in violation of an agreement
that the Federation signed
in good faith.
Captain, l think we could
adapt the cloak for the Enterprise.
Mr. Data?
Theoretically, it is possible, sir,
but it would take several hours
to study the device
and determine how to link it
to our systems.
Make it so.
PICARD:
Captain's log, stardate 47457.1 .
We have been trapped inside
the asteroid for over eight hours.
Mr. Data and Commander La Forge
inform me
that they are nearly ready
to engage the cloak.
Commander, we've routed
the impulse engines
through the plasma conduits,
but you're gonna have to watch
the intercooler levels.
If they get too high,
we'll blow the entire relay system.
RlKER [OVER COM :
Understood.
I think that's what happened
1 2 years ago.
The cloak blew out the plasma relays
on the Pegasus after we left the ship.
The plasma ignited in space,
and it looked
as if the ship had been destroyed.
So the ship drifted into this system
still in a phased state.
And when it passed through
this asteroid...
The cloak failed,
and half of the ship
materialized in solid rock.
LA FORGE [OVER COM]:
La Forge to Bridge.
The cloak is online
and ready to begin phase sequencing.
- Proceed, Number One.
- Aye, sir.
Activating power systems.
Report.
The cloak appears
to be functioning normally.
The ship's matter-energy
phasing rate
should be sufficient
to pass through the asteroid.
Take us out.
Maneuvering thrusters only.
WORF:
Aye, sir.
We will reach the rock face
in five seconds.
We have passed through
two kilometers of the asteroid.
Now within one kilometer
of the surface.
We're approaching the surface.
We have cleared
the asteroid, captain.
The warbird is off the port bow.
They're still waiting for us
to make up our minds.
Disengage the cloaking device,
commander.
You cannot do that. If the Romulans
see us decloaking, they--
They'll know the truth, admiral.
Which is what everyone will know
very shortly.
Carry out my orders.
Mr. Worf, send a message
to the warbird.
Inform them that their government
will be contacted shortly
about this incident.
Aye, sir.
Admiral, l am hereby charging you
with violation of the Treaty of Algeron.
As captain of the Enterprise,
I'm placing you under arrest.
Mr. Worf.
Admiral, if you will come with me.
Captain, l'll have to be placed
under arrest as well.
Admiral.
I have a lot of friends
at Starfleet Command, captain.
You're going to need them.
I've spoken
with Fleet Admiral Shanthi.
There will be a full inquiry
once we reach Starbase 247.
And that will probably lead
to a general court-martial
of Admiral Pressman
and several others
at Starfleet Intelligence.
Your involvement in this affair
is going to be
thoroughly investigated, Will.
There'll be some hard questions
for you to answer.
I understand.
You made a mistake 1 2 years ago,
but your service since then
has earned you a great deal of respect,
but this incident
could cost you some of that respect.
I can't help but feel that I should
have come forward a long time ago.
But when the moment came
to make a decision,
you made the right one.
You chose to tell the truth
and face the consequences.
As long as you can still do that,
then you deserve to wear that uniform.
And I will still be proud
to have you as my first officer.